---
title: "Topics and projects to complete in 2020"
date: 2020-06-01T21:25:10+08:00
draft: true
tags: ["website" ]
---

Today's post lays out some blog topics that I have been ruminating over for a while.

More subtly its another way to(hopefully) commit myself to a deadline before the end of the year.

##### Opening Thoughts
I am glad that I have managed to have kept posting over the last few days. Gotta keep the momentum going. 

I would imagine readership would be a good way of keeping motivated. Butttt thats better left for another time.

Moving forward, I think its helpful to list out my thoughts right at the start. Helps add a personal touch I suppose.

## Topics and Blogs for 2020
Not in any particular order, but structured by certain thematic areas.

### Series 3: Sustainability
1. My personal journey with sustainability (Drafting)
2. Greenwashing the Greenwash - https://www.eco-business.com/news/solar-could-meet-43-of-singapores-power-demand-during-mid-day-by-2050-study/
3. The instinct of the privileged and ensuring Skin-in-the-Game 
4. My opinion on true "enemy" of sustainability (and why they will continue to exist)

### Series 4: Thoughts on the Economy
- [ ] Singapore's merchant mindset in an age of innovation (drafting)
- [ ] The inevitable fork in the highway. Dealing with a Two speed economy in global markets.



Serires: Socio-Economic:

- [ ] An Essay on Inequality (there is global and local inequality. Capping by the multiples of pay)
- [ ] On race (There is pre-competition meritocracy (racial quota, in top courses etc) vs post-competition meritocracy. On systemic race. Issues: there are racial quotas.  Skills (e.g. Language) vs race. What if an Indian that can speak Chinese vs a Chinese who can't speak go view the same house. Who will get it? Onus is on govt to pick up Malay +other language? Disagree - best to have a neutral language. Aka English. )
- [ ] Prejuidced hiring (Key for political masters |Training of local talent | Business leaders not standing up and taking a public stances. | Demographic of unrest: male, 30 to 40. Driven by anxiety over the individual's economic future. )

### Other personal/ thoughts

- [ ] A list of the best Hokkien Mee in Singapore.

- [x] "Never Say Always" - The intolerance of intolerance: an contemplation on the philosophy of living in the gray. But what if you cannot tolerate those who live in the black and white?

- [x] Lifestacks map - a tool for polymaths (scoping, updated 5 Jun 2020)

- [ ] Lifestacks map - launch

- [ ] How systems thinking changed my life

- [ ] Antiscale - book review of Scale, and thoughts on the opposite

- [ ] Spin offs and spillovers: the unintended consequences of our actions

- [x] The success of a democracy is judged not by the quality of its government, but by the quality of its opposition.

- [ ] Intellectual bravery, spirituality and religion (opposites?)

- [ ] Right tech-ing vs High tech-ing in an age of diminishing innovation [Moores law Unnecessary cost]

- [ ] Intellectual curiosity and the social benefits of top-quartiling your life's experience - "Getting into the Room" (On being the top quartile - "getting into the room". You are able to engage deeply to the topic. And form a connection with others interested in the area. Helps build rapport. )  Something like a "stubby T-shape"

- [ ] Defining my principles (Pragmatic sustainability, Knowledge, Wisdom and Intelligence)

- [ ] Logical fallacies and the Modern day application of Bacon's Idols (It is important to catching myself of logical fallacies | Bacon had four idols of the mind to avoid. | Of the tribe (left wing and right wing extremism) |Of the marketplace (crypto) |Of the theater (romantic films))

