---
title: "On a Mercantile Heritage in an Age of Innovation (and getting a haircut)"
date: 2020-06-10T21:00:14+08:00
draft: true

---

#### TLDR;

- Geographically,  lends itself to trade. Singapore has a rich heritage of merchants and traders.
- The Merchant mindset prefers to take, and not make. 
- As the economy grows more intangible (article for another time), this also skews us towards a profit-without-product state. This is not resilient or healthy in the long-term.
- This puts Singapore at an inherent disadvantage to *create* value. 
- But things are temporal - cultures take time to change.

#### History of Singapore's Role in International Systems

A topic wort  detail is perhaps its history as a location for trade. 

Since the late Medieval Era, merchants ranging from China, Europe and the Middle East appear to have engaged with the settlement based on historical records. Archaeological evidence points towards Singapore (or Temasek as it was known then), as a trading centre with a fortified city. It is conceivable that this trading role persisted in different forms through the Majapahits, the Srivijaya and many the dominant coastal powers at that time. 

Yet, its geographic strengths alone was not enough to save it. There are no good records from the decline of the Sultanate of Malacca until the arrival of the British in the 19th Century.

### Trade and Mercantilism

Without getting into the details too deeply into identity, questioning what a nation is, etc. I find it very much believable - at a broad level - that the economy, culture and norms of a nation are heavily influenced by its location and geography. With it, its economic strengths, culture, norms emerge. 

I infer that Singapore's geography has naturally led it to develop its famed openness for business and trade; diversity and multiculturalism; neutrality and peace-loving disposition.

I wonder too, whether it has forced its citizens to adopt the "merchant-mindset". 

Much of Singapore's wealth is currently generated by skimming money off the flows of others. 

Raising funds for a regonal pal

Digital marketing, advertising;

Drop-shipping

Cryptocurrency (*retches*)

More recently, there has been a marked re

Are all value-adding services but remain heavily reliant on the prod



Ultimately, money is easier made by 





Where rent-seeking activities were once doled out in tangible parcels of land, this activity now happens in the backroom of



### Forcing a change in mindset

It is perfectly understandable then - why 

### Example of Hairdresser

Earlier this week, I had gone down to visit a hairdresser.



Japanese - Taught me how to style my hair

Korean - Best looking so far

Singaore - a good, but uncomfortably hard sold massage



IN the future:

Matching supply and demand (what merchants tried to correct) will be squeezed out. Can order from anyone, anywhere in the world.

Teaching humans

S

I dont forsee robots doing this any time soon.



Of course the hypocrisy on my part is that I take a one step further removed from actual.

This is a tension i hope to resolve in the next year or so!

---

It has become a guilty(?) pleasure for me. Feeding off my personal biases but spinning it a round.

A guy. W.

But gosh. Does a nice hair wash in the sink feel great. The parfum of various sprays and product.

The clinical and careful buzz of a cut.

Hairdressers are just aesthetically nice places to be. 

The mercantile mindset in an age of innovation: an exploration into Singapore's history of profiting off others, as opposed to generating value).



